---
title: "Metrics and Targets"
# excerpt_separator: "<!--more-->"
categories:
  - Blog
  - Data
tags:
  - metrics
  - data
---

# A target is not a metrics

In the world of data, businesses are constantly worried about meeting targets. This is not new, and not a uniquely corporate phenomenon. The pirates that worked off the coast of Somalia gave bonuses, including for being the [first on the ship](https://www.npr.org/2011/04/15/135408659/inside-the-pirate-business-from-booty-to-bonuses), for example. In a corporate job, a target might be finding new targets, rather than armed maritime assault, but the idea is that we want to incentivize higher performance.

## What is a metric?

A metric is a way of measuring something. In a hospital, blood pressure and pulse rate are useful metrics. Businesses look at measures such as employee and customer churn, units produced, and the like. The idea is, like a sudden drop in blood pressure, a sudden dropoff in quantity ordered might indicate that the firm is having trouble of some sort. As such, monitoring metrics is a key task of data analysts.

## What is the difference?

In short, the diffrence is [Goodhart's Law](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Goodhart%27s_law). My personal favorite example, introduced by [Tim Harford's book "Messy"](https://timharford.com/books/messy/), is how the APGAR measure went from a metric for newborn babies to the target that drove (at least in part) the rise of C-sections in the United States. Most importantly, this never accuses doctors of actively pursuing the goal. However, simply moving a procedure towards a default selection, rather than an opt-out, can shape outcomes (just as any behavioral economist about nudges).

This has nothing to do with Amazon, in particular. However, in hearing multiple times about monitoring metrics, I wanted to take a minute and say out loud that a target is not a metric. Now if you'll excuse me, I have to contemplate factor analysis.

